Stellaris version 2.1 introduces a number of changes and improvements to the overall experience, as well as a number of enhancements to the exploration aspect of the game.

Anomalies have been overhauled with a back-end improvements to benefit modders, and you will immediately notice a number of changes in the game as well. Anomaly research can no longer fail, and failure risk has been replaced with a modifier to research time: the higher the skill of your scientist and the lower the level of the anomaly, the faster it can be researched, and vice versa. Anomalies are now much less likely to repeat, and you will be seeing more content in each playthrough.

Galaxy generation has been reworked, and the galaxy is now made up of star systems in tightly interconnected clusters linked together along sparse hyperlane "highways." This will create more diverse and tactically interesting terrain, while allowing the game to be more conscious of naturally-occurring choke-points and adjust Space Monster population (and other obstacles) accordingly. Hyperlanes are now uncovered in a Hyperlane Detection Range extending out from conventional Sensors. You need to have seen a hyperlane to use it, but once uncovered it stays visible forever.

A new Fleet Order for Science Ships has been added, called Experimental Subspace Navigation. Once unlocked by a new technology, this complex maneuver allows a Science Ship to ignore hyperlanes and navigate the treacherous terrain of subspace directly, disappearing from sensors (effectively going MIA) and reappearing at the target destination. This is useful for exploring beyond the territories of unfriendly Empires or getting to those just-out-of-reach Special Projects (though you still cannot move inside closed borders).

The Distant Stars Story Pack makes use of all these features to bring a boatload of new content to explore, from new Anomalies to Leviathans to a particularly enigmatic cluster of extragalactic stars.

---

Due to the size and scope of the changes, saved games from previous versions will not be compatible with version 2.1. If you wish to continue your old save in version 2.0, follow the forum link below and read the thread "How to revert Stellaris to a previous version."